h1. LaunchingSoon

Launching soon is a plugin that helps rails projects to manage a dedicated launching soon page before the actual launch date. The plugin also collects email from potential customers.

Options available to store subscriber's email addresses are:

  # CSV file (public/data.csv).
  # Campaign Monitor ("www.campaignmonitor.com":http://www.campaignmonitor.com).
  # Mail Chimp ("www.mailchimp.com":http://www.mailchimp.com).
  # Database.


h2. Pre-requisites

You need an account (API Key and List ID) with:

  * Campaign Monitor If you want to use Campaign Monitor as a store for subscriber's email address ("http://www.signup.createsend.com/signup":http://www.signup.createsend.com/signup).
  * MailChimp  If you want to use MailChimp as a store for subscriber's email address ("http://www.mailchimp.com/signup/":http://www.mailchimp.com/signup/).

h2. Dependencies

If you are using Campaign Monitor this plugin requires the following gems:

gnumarcelo-campaigning
<pre><code>sudo gem install gnumarcelo-campaigning -s http://gems.github.com</code></pre>

dependencies for gnumarcelo-campaigning: Soap4r

<pre><code>sudo gem install soap4r</code></pre>

h2. Installation

The latest version is available on GitHub. There are a few options for installing LaunchingSoon.

Install as a Rails plugin:

<pre><code>script/plugin install git://github.com/Satish/launching_soon.git</code></pre>

Clone from the Github repository:

<pre><code>git clone git://github.com/Satish/launching_soon.git</code></pre>

h2. Configuration

Configuration is done via @RAILS_ROOT/config/launching_soon.yml@.

The options that you must specify are:

  # css_file_name
  # html_file_name
  # option_to_store_email (default: csv)
  # campaign_monitor_api_key and campaign_monitor_list_id
     OR
     mail_chimp_api_key and mail_chimp_list_id
     OR
     csv_file_name
</pre>
Example configuration (RAILS_ROOT/config/launching_soon.yml)
<pre><code>
  html_file_name           : launching_soon.html.erb  # launching soon page contants (app/views/launching_soon.html.erb)
  css_file_name            : launching_soon.css       # stylesheet for launching soon page (public/stylesheets/launching_soon.css)
  option_to_store_email    : csv                      # option are : csv | campaign_monitor | mail_chimp | db
  campaign_monitor_api_key : _put_here_your_api_key_  # CAMPAIGN_MONITOR_API_KEY
  campaign_monitor_list_id : _put_here_your_list_id_  # CAMPAIGN_MONITOR_LIST_ID
  mail_chimp_api_key       : _put_here_your_api_key_  # MAIL_CHIMP_API_KEY
  mail_chimp_list_id       : _put_here_your_list_id_  # MAIL_CHIMP_LIST_ID
  csv_file_name            : data.csv                 # file to store email addresses of the subscribers (public/data.csv)
</code></pre>

h2. Usage

Step 1 : Include the LaunchingSoon in ApplicationController:
<pre><code>
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  include LaunchingSoon # if Rails.env.development?
  ...
end
</code></pre>

Step 2 : Add following routes to your applications routes.rb
<pre><code>
ActionController::Routing::Routes.draw do |map|
  map.resources :news_letter_subscribers, :only => [:create]
	...
end

OR, alternatively run the following command

ruby script/generate launching_soon_routes
</code></pre>

Step 3 : Generate migration to add news_letter_subscribers table
<pre><code>
class CreateNewsLetterSubscribers < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def self.up
    create_table :news_letter_subscribers do |t|
      t.string :email
      t.timestamps
    end
    add_index :news_letter_subscribers, :email
  end

  def self.down
    drop_table :news_letter_subscribers
  end
end

OR, alternatively run the following command

rake db:migrate:launching_soon
</code></pre>

h2. Issue Tracker

Please submit any bugs or annoyances on the lighthouse tracker at

"https://vinsol.lighthouseapp.com/projects/31867-launching-soon/overview":https://vinsol.lighthouseapp.com/projects/31867-launching-soon/overview


Copyright (c) 2009 [satish@vinsol.com], released under the MIT license
